Update basic SQL operations (#3263)
pingcap/docs: basic-sql-operations.md

---

> title: Basic SQL operations

Reviewer: Please keep the title consistent with the 1st-level heading in the body.
"operations" > "Operations"

summary: Learn about the basic SQL statements for the TiDB database.
aliases: ['/docs/dev/basic-sql-operations/','/docs/dev/how-to/get-started/explore-sql/']
---

# Basic SQL Operations

TiDB is compatible with MySQL, you can use MySQL statements directly in most of the cases. For unsupported features, see [Compatibility with MySQL](/mysql-compatibility.md#unsupported-features).

> Structured Query Language (SQL) is a declarative language which defines the way that users interact with databases. You can use SQL just as a natural language to talk to the database. This page walks you through the basic SQL statements in TiDB. For a complete list of TiDB statements, see [TiDB SQL Syntax Diagram](https://pingcap.github.io/sqlgram/).

Reviewer: For this section, I suggest using the existing English version. @ireneontheway @ran-huang If the existing English version is better, just keep them.

## Category

SQL is divided into the following 4 types according to their functions:

- DDL (Data Definition Language): It is used to define database objects, including databases, tables, views, and indexes.

- DML (Data Manipulation Language): It is used to manipulate application related records.

> - DQL (Data Query Language)：It is used to query the records after conditional filtering.

Reviewer: Please do not use Chinese style punctuation in English docs.

- DCL (Data Control Language): It is used to define access privileges and security levels

Common DDL features are creating, modifying, and deleting objects (such as tables and indexes). The corresponding commands are `CREATE`, `ALTER`, and `DROP`.

## Show, create and drop a database

Database in TiDB can be considered as a collection of objects such as tables and indexes.

To show the list of databases, use the `SHOW DATABASES` statement:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SHOW DATABASES;
```

> Use the database named `mysql`:

Reviewer: Please keep the sentence structure consistent with that of others.
Use > To use

SHOW INDEX from person;
```

To delete an index, use the `DROP INDEX` or `ALTER TABLE` statement. `DROP INDEX` can embed `ALTER TABLE` statements.:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
DROP INDEX person_id ON person;
```

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
ALTER TABLE person DROP INDEX person_unique_id;
```

> **Note:**
> 
> DDL operations are not transactions. You don't need corresponding COMMIT statements when executing DDL.
>

> > Common DML features are adding, modifying, and deleting tables. The corresponding commands are CREATE,  ALTER,and DELETE.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Common DML features are adding, modifying, and deleting table records. The corresponding commands are `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, and `DELETE`.
```
btw, I think this sentence should not be included in the **Note**. What do you think?

> ## Insert, select, update, and delete data

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Insert, update, and delete data
```

INSERT INTO person VALUES("1","tom","20170912");
```

To insert data into a table containing data, use the `INSERT` statement:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
INSERT INTO person(id,name) VALUES("2","bob");
```

To update the data in a table, use the `UPDATE` statement:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
UPDATE person SET birthday='20180808' WHERE id=2;
```

To delete the data in a table, use the `DELETE` statement:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
DELETE FROM person WHERE id=2;
```

> Note: UPDATE and DELETE without WHERE filter operate on the entire table.

Author: The expression of "note" in pingcap/doc seems not to follow the guideline.

INSERT INTO person VALUES("1","tom","20170912");
```

> To insert data into a table containing data, use the `INSERT` statement:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To insert data into a table containing data of some fields, use the `INSERT` statement:
```

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
INSERT INTO person(id,name) VALUES("2","bob");
```

> To update the data in a table, use the `UPDATE` statement:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To update some fields of a record in a table, use the `UPDATE` statement:
```

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
UPDATE person SET birthday='20180808' WHERE id=2;
```

To delete the data in a table, use the `DELETE` statement:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
DELETE FROM person WHERE id=2;
```

> **Note:**
> 

> > UPDATE and DELETE without WHERE filter operate on the entire table.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> The `UPDATE` and `DELETE` statements without the `WHERE` clause as a filter operate on the entire table.
```

>

> > DQL is used to retrieve the desired data rows from a table or multiple tables, usually the core content.

Reviewer 2: Similarly, this sentence doesn't look like a part of this **note**. Rather, it reads more like an introduction of the next section `query data`

## Query data

To view the data in a table, use the `SELECT` statement:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SELECT * FROM person;
```

Add the column name to be queried after the `SELECT` statement:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SELECT name FROM person;
+------+
| name |
+------+
| tom  |
+------+
```

> Use the WHERE clause to filter all records for eligibility and then return:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the `WHERE` clause to filter all records that match the conditions and then return the result:
```

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SELECT * FROM person where id<5;
```

> Common DCL features are creating or deleting users, and managing user privileges.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
DCL are usually used to create or delete users, and manage user privileges.
```

INSERT INTO person VALUES("1","tom","20170912");
```

To insert a record containing data of some fields into a table, use the `INSERT` statement:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
INSERT INTO person(id,name) VALUES("2","bob");
```

To update some fields of a record in a table, use the `UPDATE` statement:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
UPDATE person SET birthday='20180808' WHERE id=2;
```

To delete the data in a table, use the `DELETE` statement:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
DELETE FROM person WHERE id=2;
```

> **Note:**
> 
> The `UPDATE` and `DELETE` statements without the `WHERE` clause as a filter operate on the entire table.

> DQL is used to retrieve the desired data rows from a table or multiple tables, usually the core content.

Reviewer: I don't think `usually the core content` is necessary in this sentence. 
> DQL is used to retrieve the desired data rows from a table or multiple tables.
